docs: rearrange docs structure and prepare for future outline (#2051)
namehash/ensnode: docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/docs/integrate/integration-options/ensdb.mdx

---
title: ENSDb (PostgreSQL)

> description: Direct database access for self-hosters needing custom queries, analytics, or services beyond what the APIs expose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Direct database access for self-hosters needing custom queries, analytics, or building custom services beyond what existing APIs expose.
```

---

import { LinkCard } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

> For use cases that go beyond what the ENS Omnigraph exposes — you can query the live onchain state of **ENSv2** directly via `SQL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For special use cases that go beyond what the ENS Omnigraph exposes — you can query the live onchain state of **ENSv2** directly via `SQL`.
```

> **ENSDb** is an open standard that stores the full **ENSv2** state in a PostgreSQL database. Because it's plain Postgres, you can use *any* language with a Postgres driver — **TypeScript**, **Python**, **Rust**, **Go**, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**ENSDb** is an open standard that stores the live onchain **ENSv2** state in a carefully-crafted data model within a PostgreSQL database. Because it's plain Postgres, you can use *any* language with a Postgres driver — **TypeScript**, **Python**, **Rust**, **Go**, and more.
```

:::note[Self-hosting required]
ENSDb is available when you [self-host ENSNode](/docs/self-host). Each ENSNode instance writes its data into a PostgreSQL database that you own and control — that database **is** your ENSDb instance. The hosted ENSNode instances do not expose direct database access.
:::

### When to choose ENSDb

- You need **full SQL power** — joins, aggregations, window functions, CTEs.
- You're building **custom services** on top of ENS data.
- You're hitting the API limits of the [public hosted instances](/docs/integrate/hosted-instances) and need unrestricted local access.

### Example: fetch ENSv2 domains with the ENSDb SDK

```typescript
import { EnsDbReader } from "@ensnode/ensdb-sdk";
import { eq } from "drizzle-orm";

const ensDbReader = new EnsDbReader(ensDbConnectionString, ensIndexerSchemaName);
const { ensDb, ensIndexerSchema } = ensDbReader;

const v2Domains = await ensDb
  .select()
  .from(ensIndexerSchema.domain)
  .where(eq(ensIndexerSchema.domain.type, "ENSv2Domain"));
```

### Example: fetch ENSv2 domains with raw SQL

```sql

> SELECT * FROM ensindexer_mainnet.domains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT * FROM ensindexer_0.domains
```

Goal: we flatten ENS data into a single data model spanning multiple chains. Don't want the reader to think they have to query data from different chains differently.
